the purpose of this video is not satire
and it's not self-pity a lot of what
people have to say about this on youtube
it's fundamentally
self-centered self-indulgent
self-pitying short-term thinking and
what this video is about is really a
very positive message about how you can
make your own life better thinking
long-term about who you want to be how
you want to live your life how you're
going to include other people in it and
i mentioned satire for a reason
a lot of these videos like
it's a struggle to separate to what
extent this person is trying to be a
kind of embittered stand-up comedian you
know like talking about their own
heartbreak or talking about what
happened to their sister or their best
friend you know like to what extent is
this social commentary to what extent is
this social satire and to what extent
are you getting
really serious really useful first
person reflections you get the person
really telling you how they think you
should live your life and how they're
going to live their own life you know to
what extent are we dealing with the
problem itself in earnest and
many of these videos even if they're
made with the best of intentions
it strikes me that the people uploading
them aren't seriously reflecting just
how negative the effects on the audience
are going to be now for the audience's
part you know there's something else
here
um it's up to you to decide to what
extent the advice i'm giving is really
applicable in your own life and that's a
totally positive process like i think
it's totally positive i'm not going to
complain to you if somebody watched this
somebody watch this and says well you
know this guy recording the youtube
video is mazzard he has his own
background as uh six foot three inches
tall
conventionally attractive unconventional
intellectual he's had these women
throwing ourselves at him his whole life
since he was 13 years old you know he
has his own experience that's warped and
skewed and his advice it doesn't apply
to me or it's not something i could use
or take on board in my life you know
what i i think that's completely
legitimate i think it's totally fine for
you to criticize the advice i'm giving
especially in terms of how it lives your
life in terms of what your idea of a
meaningful life is but what i can say
you know in making this video is that
this really fundamentally has a positive
message like for you and you and you
like this is something that can
influence your life positively it can
change your way of thinking about the
relationships you've got about the
relationships you ain't got like the
ones you're not gonna get the failures
you know i think your attitude towards
failure is a huge part of success in
life right and where you're going moving
forward now
you can already get the point this is
not going to be a shallow discussion of
a shallow topic i think it's
it's one of the most meaningful things
we have in our lives and it's one of the
most meaningful variables we have in our
lives it's one of the things we can
really change and where our attitudes
and our expectations and our efforts
change everything right like
there's so many people okay we'll use a
real example i had a grandfather one of
my grandparents his whole life he said
he wanted to be a lawyer and he should
have been a liar that everything would
have worked out better if only uh he had
been a lawyer
now i disagree with him i think probably
he would have had a completely miserable
life if
he and his wife who's very supportive
this is what i'm told i mean obviously
you know i i wasn't there i wasn't well
you know i knew them i knew my
grandparents but i wasn't in the room
for this kind of thing but apparently
the way she she replied to this and if
she did like kudos to her this is a real
it's a real alpha move
she replied to this by saying every time
you should do it
you should do it today
you know quit your job open up a new
bank account like we'll move some money
we'll go you can go back to you can go
back to school you can start becoming a
lawyer today we can make this work she
said i'll support you you can change it
and my lawyer i'm sorry about my lawyer
my grandfather would respond to this by
being totally self-pitying and saying no
no no like it's too late like if only
you had done this earlier in life and
look you know i just want to say there's
some there's some truth to that my
grandfather in question here he was
jewish he was a russian immigrant he was
jewish from from russia and he was in
circumstances including very real
institutional anti-semitism at that time
there were quotas for how many jews
would be allowed in to each university
no joke there was real overt
institutional racism and so on there
were tangible reasons why he couldn't
first pursue his dream as a lawyer
earlier in life i think he was totally
deluded about what his life would have
been like after he became a lawyer but
my point here with this digression is
this um
you know
this is something you can control this
is something you can change so i'm going
to start the first point is the
shallowest in the video it gets deeper
from here but already this is not that
shallow you know i think for many people
the discourse that goes on in their own
mind
takes place standing in front of a
mirror
and when they are thinking about why
they can't get laid
they're looking in the mirror and
they're thinking about or they're asking
themselves why they are not more
attractive
or how they could be more attractive or
what they can do to become more
attractive now again this may sound
shallow but i think this leads to
profound changes in your life okay
what if instead you're asking the
question
about being
interesting what if instead you
recognize that when you're at an event
like a conference when there's
200 people in the room could be 500
people could be 5 000 people many people
in the room wants you know what yeah you
might look around the room
and some people stand out as attractive
to you some people stand out as ugly
and a whole lot of people there you're
just kind of indifferent to they're
neither attractive nor repulsive you're
just indifferent and as you talk to
people in this crowd if you're at a
conference if you're at some kind of big
event like this there's a lot of
face-to-face interaction the people who
will matter to you the people who you'll
want to
invite to go to lunch with you the
people you'll want to get their email
and meet up later or something you know
every single time it's going to be that
you found them interesting or they found
you interesting every single time no
matter how attractive they are if
they're not interesting nothing happens
or if you're not interested in them
nothing happens and then conversely you
meet someone you know
just just
give you a quick scenario say you're
having a conversation
and you are reflect you know i went to
this pharmacy
and i got ripped off by the pharmacist
the pharmacist on the desk did this
thing where they filled out something
fake on the receipt and then i paid for
it i only realized a week later
is somebody somebody at this conference
or somebody in the hotel lobby or
somebody at the coffee shop someone you
you no reason interesting they're not
attractive and they're not repulsive
they're just kind of neutral when you
first behold them they say to you oh
yeah you know what i used to work in a
pharmacy and we rip people off that way
all the time you know it's terrible you
know like and you start having a
conversation with this person about you
know corruption
in the pharmaceutical industry in the in
the pharmacies in the world about this
particular scam okay
why did this conversation start what's
going on in that conversation and you
are going to find yourself attracted to
this person why you're going to find
just interested in this person why
because what they're saying is
interesting to you and a lot of the
tests that we have going on right the
test for is this person uh attractive
enough for me are they intelligent
enough for me are they of the right kind
of moral and ethical character for me or
the right kind of emotional care for me
those tests are going on during that
conversation you know i put the bar real
low here for being interesting right
like hey
i'm complaining about being ripped off
at a pharmacy this person says back to
me that they used to work you know
buying the front counter of a pharmacy
or uh the the cash the desk they used to
work but they used to check out people's
groceries at a pharmacy or something and
there's something already that you talk
about there's something this is just
a little bit interesting you know
there's not not a whole hell of a lot of
intellectual substance there but if you
really reflect on your own life
honestly i think you're gonna find that
that quality of being interesting and of
being interested in the other person and
of them being interested in you it's so
much more important
than being attractive right and i'm
going to go in the linear even if i'm
wrong if you in the audience because my
my advice is not universally valid if
you in the audience are the exception of
the rule or you personally say nope
you don't give a damn about that you
don't you don't care how articulate
someone is or how intelligent someone is
or the way in which that kind of
conversation reveals something about
their intellectual and emotional
character and you start being interested
they just like nope when you turn up at
the conference and there are 500 people
and everyone's kind of milling around
and chatting each other that you just
scanned the crowd and you purely
evaluate people on the shape of the body
and the proportions of their face and
that is it for you that's when you see
the world that's how you respond to
other people and it doesn't change that
when you talk to them you don't care if
they're an idiot you don't care if
they're an alcoholic you don't care if
they're a gambling addict you don't care
how much or little you become if that's
how you operate because i'm not going to
make the claim there's nobody on planet
earth who thinks it feels that way let
me tell you the other people you're
interacting with okay it's not like that
for them like the other people they are
not evaluating you that way they are not
evaluating the way you the way you do
when you look in the mirror
now in shifting the evaluation from the
mirror and the question of
attractiveness and being attractive to
questions of being interesting and being
interested and that being reciprocal
with other people
um
you know this has its own
kind of aesthetic
challenges
right now i'll just say to you i
i a lot of this advice comes out of my
experience with with particular friends
i've had and their struggles with
romance with getting laid and not
getting laid with trying to have uh
long-term uh relationships and failing
and
ending up with short-term relationships
or ending up with no relationships at
all but like you know just just
challenge yourself in this way
hypothetically you know there's so many
guys
and whether they obsess over a woman via
instagram like they have a whole bunch
of instagram messages back and forth or
it's someone they're at work with they
talk to at work and they're trying to
make the transition to having a real
relationship with this person you know
if you actually recorded your own
conversations with this person if you
had a tape recorder and you recorded the
conversations you had with them
do you think that you
are being interesting
and do you think the other person
is interested
i've had friends i've had friends who
send me screenshots of their
conversations with women women they're
trying to have a relationship with on
instagram you know it's these messages
back and forth
and you sometimes
many times these conversations end with
a woman saying that they are just not
interested like it can be as blunt as
that
um like they say things like look i'm
not really it's been nice talking to you
but i'm not really interested they will
say words to that effect and like really
what you got to ask the guy is
at what stage did you think you were
being interesting and i know it's
subjective and at what stage
is she interested like obviously not the
example i already gave not everyone is
going to be interested to have a
conversation about corruption and
bribery within the pharmaceutical system
well maybe maybe everyone will find that
it's pretty interesting conversation if
you're talking to someone who knows you
know what's saying them
that kind of thing has happened to me so
many times too um
even when you meet someone where there
were really clear barriers between you
like let's say you meet someone
and you know right away they're pretty
serious about christianity like they're
wearing a cross or some other signs that
they're that they're christian but
there's some type of conversation that
gets you going where you you're
interested in them them and they're
interested in what you have to say and
you start to respect and appreciate each
other's point of view and you realize
this person has a view of the world
coming from their own experience and yet
maybe the first thing you knew about
them was negative like oh they're a
christian there's some kind of pious
christian okay but they're not only a
christian you don't want to be there's
those things you know what maybe your
first impression of someone is that
they're fat
but if you talk them this way and you
start getting to know them and you're
interested and they're interesting and
there's there's mutual interest there
well guess what they're not only fat you
know maybe the first thing you notice is
that they have a crooked nose but
they're more than a crooked nose there's
there's something else there to
appreciate so i just say i'm not letting
anyone off the hook
in talking about a shift from
attractiveness to
being interested and being interesting
if anything i think the challenge for a
lot of people it's it's harder to be
interesting it's more demanding than
being attractive now this is maybe a
case where we can pause and ask is this
exactly the same for men and women or is
it like 10 percent different for men and
women let me just say i've known
so many beautiful women
who
never made any effort to be interesting
like they really didn't develop
themselves intellectually and they they
try to hit on me they try to get
something going with me and again so
let's say it's a woman is 30 years old
even but this is a woman who from age 18
to age 30 just made no effort just
assumed all she needs to do is be good
looking and present herself to the guy
and say yup i'm i'm available for you to
hit on me just present the opportunity
for the guy to be winning witty and
charming and do all the work and they
meet someone like me and like you know
i'm saying them yeah what what did you
have to say to me uh-huh why why are you
talking to me again and so this goes
this goes way back and this is true in
my my teenagers and this isn't something
that's just happened lately but you know
sorry what do you have to offer of what
intellectual substance are you what you
know what is there intellectually
emotionally or otherwise that's common
ground that's going to bring us together
why am i having this conversation with
you and you know as you can guess from
my attitude my attitude is partly yeah
you know what there are a lot of
beautiful girls in the world there are a
lot of beautiful women
at this conference on this floor and
this you know like i don't regard that
as scarce i'm you know expecting the
woman to be able to step up and make an
effort now in in 2021 what i've just
said is that more or less of a problem
for men or is it exactly the same
like
you know i'm open to the possibility
it's just as much of a problem with men
why
a lot of men are video game addicts a
lot of men spend their time playing
video games watching sports on tv you
know etc
so they may be just as badly off or
worse
in terms of actually meeting and
interacting with other sex and in that
fundamental basic sense being
interesting so i gave you guys the um i
gave you guys the warning that that was
the shallowest point i had to offer but
you know i i don't think it's all that
shallow like i i
when do you have this discourse in your
life
very few of us melissa and i talked
about this before making the video this
is a rare case because i had two hours
advanced
warning before i started recording by
the way great to see 49 people in the
audience if you can share the link if
you know anyone who's interested enjoy
this conversation share the link with
your friends on facebook or share the
link on twitter whatever you got
if you share it on reddit i don't know
who's gonna turn up but uh let's see
also during the conversation i'm happy
to answer uh questions from the audience
uh but anyway by the way melissa also
has the right to to shout in her opinion
she's sitting she's sitting just off
camera but yeah i'll just say like one
of the things with melissa is i can
definitely say with melissa you never
had
a friend you would talk to you about
this issue in this way uh this does not
have become the autobiography of of
melissa on this issue but like but you
know
people who are frustrated people so we
had the black pill being shouted out
here you know people who are
dealing with this i think a lot of it is
staring at the mirror i think a lot of
it is staring into the warped mirror of
youtube a lot of it is alone
one way or the other like alone with
social media alone with reddit right but
but it's not and it's not talking to
someone who's
maybe older more sophisticated more
experienced and who actually sympathize
with your situations actually trying to
help that's that's pretty rare in our
culture
you know being in the position of being
yes
right and you know uh
look i mean people
people are profoundly alien on this on
this issue people are mutually alien i
have known older guys who tried to give
me advice that i just completely laughed
at i mean you can you can probably
imagine there are older men who you know
really are misogynists there are older
men who really do regard all women as
prostitutes there are women who there's
a part of me there are men whose advice
on this stuff would just be so
irrelevant to my life and how i live it
that you know that can be that can be
totally counterproductive too but i mean
recognizing the locus of where these
questions are raised and answers uh can
be significant and in saying people ask
themselves this in front of the mirror
and think about it in terms of
attractiveness and that's already a
problem i
i'm just saying i think that's already
something profound so i knew two women
you can tell a lot about a woman from a
relationship with her sister by the way
so i need to i'm going to make this a
little bit uh anonymous
oh what were the rages so one of them
was just over 30 and one was just under
30. so let's say one of them was 32 and
one of them was 27 something like this
it's not a big age gap but both of them
both of them were on the like biological
clock am i ever going to have a baby am
i ever going to get uh married
and
keeping this anonymous
i knew both of these women and for just
a couple of days
i met their mom
and i saw them
in the room with their mom and and so i
saw their relationship with their mother
you really see some
all right
and i remember so the mother was
counseling both of them on settling down
and getting married and both of them
were like consciously at the stage of
wanting to
get committed and and settle down and
move on and have and raise kids so there
was a lot of talk like this going on
between them
and there was one time when the younger
uh sister was not in the room and i was
in the room with the mom and the older
sister so i'm gonna make up a name say
the younger sister's name was mary
and you could see
oh my god you could see how the mother
had inculcated
lifelong
trauma into these two girls
mother stood there and said in this
whinging voice
well you know
i was just thinking
if only mary could lose a little weight
you know maybe some man would be
interested
and it was the way she was saying it you
know it's not it's not that she said it
at all
the way she was saying it you realize
they've grown up hearing this since they
were maybe 15 years old and they're
hearing it now
and the younger sister
was thin enough
to be a wedding gown model she was thin
enough
you know saying wedding gown because
they're kind of big billy gowns they
often want someone with a very narrow
waist the sister in terms of body fat
was was you know she was she was very
slender already i hope she there was
absolutely no reasonable man on earth
would not be interested in her for for
wanting her to lose weight but
like you know the depths of of the the
the kind of misconception and the way in
which the mother's misconception is
being imposed on the daughters they're
being asked to live up to that and and
by the way the mom was like anorexic
thin
and i'm just being real with you when i
first met the mom i just assumed she'd
had cancer or something you know what i
mean you meet someone who's older and
they're real skinny or like you know i
just assumed
some if not cancer she had some
serious health problem right where
you're like oh
it's not a it's not a health problem you
know what i mean
no
okay so the younger sister
she very beautiful i mean you know
again apart she's not just not
overweight she's very beautiful
if you sat down
and talked to her for five minutes
you would realize right away she was
someone who either had
ptsd
bipolar disorder
something
there's something
really wrong with her like she starts
off staring you in the eyes like a cult
leader
and then she drifts away where she's
staring into space and she's like
crushing something in her hand
repeatedly like
as some really like
i don't care how good looking you are if
i was with this chick i would not feel
safe sleeping in the same room i'd want
a padlock on the door she was terrifying
now look i didn't ask any questions like
i look a lot of you guys don't know me
off camera i don't i do not ask nosy
questions i just don't i can know people
for years and not know things about them
seriously i can know somebody for you
after that after they've known me for
five years they mentioned that they're a
stripper and i didn't know that like
seriously there's people i've known for
years like there's privates why would i
ask
know i i don't have what do you do on
the weekends oh they they're a
professional stripper i didn't know that
you know this is all kinds of things
where i don't i don't know people's
secrets they don't ask they want to tell
me that they want to tell me but you
know i found out after the the sister
the younger sister left the older sister
said
you know yeah she's really going through
a problem right now with uh psychiatric
medication she was on some kind of
com
antidepressant or antipsychotic or or
what have you you know
um
[Music]
so you know okay so i'm just saying like
if you're the mother in that situation
or if you're the man who's potentially
gonna not just
seduce this woman but like have shoulder
with her have a family
don't think there were a lot of deeper
more important issues here than whether
or not she could lose five pounds or ten
pounds on like are you are you kidding
me
so yeah i'm sorry this is again this is
an aggression talking about the locus in
which we we consider these things you
know
for most people
it's the mirror for a significant number
of people it's the internet whether
that's reddit or facebook or youtube or
something and yeah for some people it's
their relationship with their own
parents for some people their own mom
and dad are the only people they talk to
about who they're dating or you know
again that's kind of alien to both
melissa and i we neither one of us we
didn't relate to our parents that way we
didn't talk about our options in our in
our love life that way
um i i could digress now as there's a
whole other there's a whole other topic
but like the locus within which you
consider these these questions and then
what it is you're you're blaming for
them what it is you're problematizing
um
and how
easily
people just think in terms of appearance
where they just think about their own
appearance
and whether or not other people are
attracted to that and they don't let
them think through the extent which they
themselves don't operate that way or you
think wait i personally i don't just
pursue the most attractive person i can
find like in real life
situations you meet a bunch of people
and all the times you you meet someone
and at first there's nothing attractive
but what would you find attractive with
them and then you find out what you have
in common or they they say something
that makes you think they're an
intelligent and interesting person you
know uh and and it goes from there
something something develops from there
so you know
that's that's not deep it's shallow but
really being honest with yourself about
that i think has tremendously important
implications throughout the rest of your
life so i'm going to pause at this point
and take a look at uh take a look at
what you guys are asking me in the uh in
the comments section i realize you guys
are talking amongst yourselves which is
great not everything has to be a
question posed to me you can talk to uh
to one another so ryan michael says the
consequences of this topic are profound
case in point the incel who killed five
people in the united kingdom the other
day so that is yet another in-cell
killing that i've not heard about um
i would just say though my advice here
is
not
limited to incels the question of why
you can't get laid could be asked for
example by a divorced person like you
know they've been married in the past
they're not now it could be asked by
someone who's had a series of successful
short-term relationships or love affairs
they're all kinds of people who are
going to ask this and reflect on this
it's not limited to the the in-cell
phenomenon
in some phenomena it's huge it's huge
cultural issue
if you think it's bad in western atheist
culture
take a look at muslim in cells take a
look at hindu in cells cast hinduism
what's it like to be a brahman in cell
are you kidding me you know there are
more sexually repressive cultures around
the world where people start with this
and you know within the more orthodox
christian subcultures of our own society
like people who still take christianity
seriously it's it's a huge problem you
know so yeah but the question of why
can't you get laid
this goes way beyond the the in so
category
okay so here's an interesting comment
from william again he says quote let's
be frank unless you look like the
elephant man getting laid isn't a real
problem
i totally disagree will you i mean maybe
we'll get into that uh
if we'll get into that topic later on
um i'd be interested to know what
cultural background that guy has and
what is what his assumptions are so i i
i said earlier
super briefly
that you know um
part of the problem with presenting this
information
in any format part of the problem with
representatives information on youtube
in a book in an essay in a poem
uh is the extent to which your
circumstances as the person giving the
advice may just be incompatible with the
circumstance of the person the audience
receiving the advice but i mean
one of the real differences in
circumstances of sorry should be
singular one of the differences between
you and in your circumstance
would be
what it is you're willing to tolerate
accept or fall in love with you know
in a partner
for someone like me uh if i were to meet
women in a bar or nightclub
i wouldn't be interested in a single one
of them the type of women i want to meet
are not at a bar or a nightclub you know
so i mean something as simple as that
now there are some men who would go to a
bar or nightclub let's give an example
uh in england this is a very big deal
and people do meet this way
you can go to a pub a pub just means a
type of bar alcohol you can go to a pub
on a night when they are playing sports
on tv
and you will meet other people who are
watching that same sport rugby was the
real sport for this rugby was the
getting laid sport
you can go wearing your rugby shirt and
you can meet a young woman who is also
drinking beer and watching rugby and
looking to sleep with a guy who plays
rugby and who has a guy who has a
certain level of physical fitness too is
part of the stereotype but i mean rugby
knight at bars you could absolutely see
that going on a lot of guys with big
forearms it's a real forearm sport that
they would wear shirts they really don't
cross their arms and show off their
their forearms all this hair oh yeah
often the rest of them isn't that great
but you really get really big forearms
okay so you know someone who's in that
subculture who's in that lane who has
those attitudes and those values i could
understand them saying what williams
says here that let's be frank unless you
look like the elephant man getting
getting ladies and gentlemen but
for me the whole problem stems out of
the fact that i want to be with somebody
who respects me and i want to be with
somebody i have respect for
now look
if you're a rugby fan and you respect
everyone else who's a rugby if that's
all it takes for you you know i'm not
i'm not saying you're sub-human or
something but you're playing by a
different set of rules right if you're
someone who drinks alcohol and hangs out
in bars watching rugby and you'd have
plenty of respect for separately for
someone else for whom all those those
things are true too that's that's a big
difference and then your your
perspective is going to be going to be
profoundly different all right
okay so vegan soldier says being sold i
don't remember singing here on the crowd
before i'm just mentioning uh vegan
soldier says quote the black pill is
real it's mostly based on facial
attractiveness and height especially for
young men on tinder close quote so i
would just say this phenomenon the black
pill basically means people have
completely given up on love romance etc
um if you
watch them on youtube
you will be able to tell in 30 seconds
what the problem is with any one of
these guys it's not mysterious right
away it's not just what they look like
it's how they talk it's what their
philosophy is towards life
their attitudes right
men who are black pill they come on
youtube and they exhibit for you
in a self-explanatory way exactly what
the problem is and why they why they
can't get laid
so
you know i think that's something to be
very hard to get across in writing it'd
be something to be hard for me to get
across as my youtube channel criticizing
another youtube channel but when youtube
channels speak for themselves in the
first person you can tell absolutely
okay we've got a lot of hard-hitting
comments here from ron sims ron sims i
think you've been in my audience for at
least five years a long time long long
time viewer of the channel
ron sims says quote what people don't
realize is that attractiveness is used
as a leverage or a cover of an otherwise
empty unexamined vaped life close quote
i completely disagree with you ron i
completely disagree
so i've got to say i feel that
attractiveness
um
you know what your body and face look
like
is just in no way related cause and
effect whether or not you're leading a
meaningful life
you know that's that is really my
position on that there are some
beautiful people who lead a meaningful
life and there are some beautiful people
who have a meaningless life
there's no shortage
of ugly people leading i mean
i'm sorry but like you know um i i feel
like this view of the world and ron by
the way i know you may just be joking
around he may not need this
it's a comment in the comment section
and you know it's it's no big deal but
you know i've grown up all my life with
uh stereotypes about jews and judaism
i'm ethnically jewish
and like people would say to me that
they thought all jewish people were
highly intelligent intellectuals or
geniuses like as if everyone who's born
jewish is of this kind of a higher
intellectual club they'd often be saying
this to me and they don't think they're
racist they don't think they're randy
submitted
and you know it's like you know have you
ever tried going to a nightclub in tel
aviv
do you really think there are no stupid
people leading a meaningless life and
telling me hey have you ever tried going
to watch a rugby game at a sports bar in
tel aviv
like you know these kinds of stereotypes
it's understandable why there are
stereotypes about beautiful people and
this is particularly sorry this is not a
big digression but this is particularly
the type of beautiful people who are
interviewed on television the type of
beautiful people become famous as actors
or models the stereotype exists for
reasons but i have to say i just think
it's completely false there's no there's
no cause and effect relationship and let
me just put you this way when you go to
the library
the door opens just as easily for the
beautiful and the ugly alike when you
take the book off the shelf it's just as
much work for an ugly person to read it
or a beautiful person to read it's not
easier whatever it is you're doing to
cultivate your mind or you know exercise
your ambition in life or even just your
curiosity in life it is no easier uh for
an ugly person than for a beautiful
person and vice versa so you know i
think you've got to really keep that
keep that in perspective despite despite
those stereotypes that indeed the mass
media tend to uh
amplify shall we say
we get a great comment you two look
great together on the thumbnail thanks
oh you can you can check out my
instagram for more pictures of us uh
more pictures of the happy couple i
guess i guess it's really melissa's
instagram you know you got that great
picture of us uh picking berries all
right well i i could share okay i won't
some of you figure out some of you will
figure out the instagram on twitter and
some of you won't
we'll leave that leave that mysterious
thanks for the compliment
so a quote from uh john pardon me james
mcpine says quote i guess the difference
would be in those countries muslim
countries etc it wouldn't be as shameful
to be a male virgin at 25 as it would be
in the west
everything i mean the way religion
shapes everything uh sorry man
what is not changed by religion i mean
you know i mean i can ask sorry james
i'm not saying this doesn't like james
have you ever dated a muslim woman have
you ever dated hindu
you know have you ever even dated say a
uh
you know
a hispanic catholic woman who takes
catholicism really seriously i mean
everything's different everything's
different in ways that people are not
even aware of it shapes their sexuality
it shapes the questions that are asked
and the questions that go when asked so
no it's it's profoundly utterly
different uh everything going on
okay so another great question from
alioth
alioth asks why do you have your
comments disabled in all your videos
eliath if you click on the description
for any of my videos just one of them
you will find that every single time in
the description to the video
you'll find the answer to this question
so i don't i i do wonder i mean you've
watched at least one of my videos we
don't know maybe you've watched a
hundred of them but um
i do have the link that answers that
question uh in the description of video
i'm i'm happy to have you guys here i'm
happy to take the time to answer these
questions and chit chat with you
but i am a full-time university student
studying chinese i have to make tough
decisions about how much of my time
i let the internet occupy and the
internet's demands of my time are
basically infinite the amount of time i
have to give is finite so you've got to
think about it that way all right
[Music]
okay all right so i'm going to get back
to the topic here but turnbull i've seen
the video you're talking about so
turnbull says uh if you're just on topic
of this video i'd recommend the ted talk
quote how i hacked online dating by adie
webb that's a terrible video
it's a distant memory that video but i
remember that i absolutely despised that
video maybe by the end of this
conversation you'll see why i uh why i
despise it so much all right so okay so
do you just wonder so ali off you
haven't had five minutes you haven't
clicked on that link you haven't taken
my answer seriously it's like what do
you think i've been uploading thousands
of videos for seven years
do you think i don't know what i'm
talking about i think i don't know how
much time it takes to run a youtube
comment section yeah i don't know how
about you
do you have a youtube channel do you
have a youtube comment section do you
know how much time that takes up your
life
sorry i just don't understand why you
can't fundamentally be sympathetic and
take seriously when i've taken the time
to give you an answer your question it's
a serious question you got a serious
answer the answer was already in the
description every single one of my
videos so
you know respect it or check it as 50
cent used to say
all right
um
i noticed that pretty much nobody is
asking why does this why does this
question matter this is a rare example
of a question where everyone i think has
a sense of the the gravity of it uh in
our lives
um
i saw a youtube channel recently for the
first time i it is a new youtube channel
anyway so i i could have only discovered
it a few weeks ago or something when you
guys started
those of you who support me on patreon
will know the youtube channel i'm
talking about because i shared the link
he's the guy of first nations ancestry
so american indian or indigenous
canadian ever want to put it
and he was talking in his youtube
channel about how his whole life had
changed for the better after he became
vegan so we grew up in this indigenous
culture that valorized hunting
that viewed the killing of animals
partly as spiritual and partly as manly
and he grew up with all these things
and as he said simply but bluntly you
know um
everyone in his family had reacted to
his decision to become vegan this is a
big deal that a big impact on his
parents grandparents brothers and
sisters that this was something everyone
was taking very seriously they had never
even considered not eating animals and
it was so
most uh white western people think of
eating meat just as neutral or
indifferent but he was really growing up
in a subculture where eating meat and
killing killing animals and and and
eating them together was reviewed as
morally positive this is you know now
again i'm going to fill in the blanks a
little bit here he didn't talk about it
at such length but you know you can
imagine there's this positive sense on
of you're carrying on the traditions of
your ancestors or this is some special
cultural and indeed as i say spiritual
significance hunting enemy so in that
context he decided to become vegan and
then he lists off for you all the ways
in which
veganism has made his life
better
he very briefly states that the reason
he became vegan and the reason he first
kind of heard about and thought about
veganism seriously was that he got a new
girlfriend who he's in love with very
much it's not clear to me if they're
engaged to be married or something it's
a high commitment relationship and he
provides the link to her channel so he
has a serious relationship with this
woman
this woman already is vegan this woman
already is actually a life coach and is
some kind of spiritual leader
in her own way after our own fashion
now
when you hear that i think it's just a
great example of how
you know the romantic relationships in
our lives totally shape who we are and
who we become
the questions that go unasked in your
life as opposed to questions that get
asked
every single day you know what i mean
the way in which having just one person
come to your life and love you and
listen to you and you listen to them the
way in which that shapes and reshapes
everything
it's difficult to exaggerate and i mean
i know most people think about really
shallow stuff like oh actually i
remember this i remember a woman on my
channel and she said that when she was
single her bathroom would be
unbelievably messy she just didn't think
about where anything was or how
disgusting
i i'd haven't known people as well she
said the whole bathroom was full of just
you know unbelievable mess and what have
you
and she said as soon as she had a
boyfriend or a serious boyfriend in her
life there would be this huge change and
just like literally making room for him
on the counter of the bathroom and
trying to reorganize her life that way
well you know so you know that's
something the question didn't even arise
before you know it didn't even arise in
our mind to think you know oh well
you know well is is there something
wrong with my bathroom is it a problem
is it messy she didn't perceive it as
messy you bring someone else in your
life and suddenly you you perceive it as
messy this guy
uh again you can know who he is it's not
that fascinating a case study i think
it's typical he was an electrician
he drove a truck or i'm sorry if he was
an electrical engineer or something i'm
sorry getting slid on but he did some
kind of trade like this with his hands
he drove a truck he ate meat he engaged
in hunting you know he got a new
girlfriend
all kinds of things he would have never
questioned he started questioning and
soon enough you know he started coming
up with new answers and the other thing
is
i think about this a lot in terms of
politics and not just your personal life
the other thing that changes are your
priorities
things that you maybe one day would have
gotten to oh yeah again i can keep it
shallow with reorganizing your bathroom
and clean the bathroom oh yeah maybe one
day i should clean up the bathroom or
maybe one day i should think about
trying a vegan diet maybe it's something
you have thought about but it's a very
low priority now that you're in a
relationship this becomes a top priority
and other things that used to be your
top priority become a lower priority or
you know disappear altogether so you
know
i think a lot of people really
underestimate how profound that is and
on the other hand people who know
exactly how profound that is maybe
they're the ones who are the most kind
of
desperately frustrated with their own
inability to get laid or if they are
getting laid their inability to form
really meaningful long-term
relationships
being in a relationship i mean even if
we just limit it to that
narrow focus all right
you might think it doesn't change who
you are but even if we just admit these
two points it changes the questions
you're being asked it changes the
questions you ask yourself and then it
changes your priorities in life in terms
of dealing with problems and what it is
you're doing
with time with the passage of a few
months or a few years it changes
everything it changes who you are now
i'd also like to say um
i wish we lived in a world where there
were a whole lot of relationships that
could be that close and that meaningful
and change things that way
i have never once
heard a phd student
a phd student i have never once heard a
phd student say to me that their
relationship
with a professor with their supervisor
changed their life this way never
never i've never heard anyone say i'm
not talking about sex i'm just talking
about like their friendship with or
their intellectual camaraderie with the
person i have never heard anyone say
that their relationship with the
professor
changed their life that way so you know
and then
on the other hand when there are
exceptions to the rule they tend to get
sexualized i remember i'll remember this
forever even though such a brief thing i
remember a woman called in to complain
uh to a radio show
so i played this with cbc radio here in
canada she called in to complain that
they were talking about people
husbands cheating on their wives
basically and she said look you know i
think what you don't realize is that
when it's just an emotional and an
intellectual infidelity that that can be
just as damaging and she had this
example
uh from her own life but what she was
describing was a pair of work colleagues
who really kind of loved each other
there was no sex there was no kissing
but there were they had a really
meaningful life together as were
colleagues and that this created uh
jealousy in the man's wife even though
it was a non-sexual relationship but
this kind of thing so as i say it's
incredibly rare and then when there when
there is some exception this way people
tend to sexualize it like they can't let
go of the idea oh well you and your work
colleague you're more than just
colleagues you're more than just just
friends or indeed you can imagine that
the student and professor that somehow
this is more than just colleagues this
is more than just friends so yeah uh
obviously i'm not going to slam the door
on that and say that human nature is
only susceptible to these kinds of
profoundly important relationships when
they are sexual or become sexualized
but yeah it's it's terrifying to me at
age 42
to look around the world and see how see
how rare that is so look you know um
i just
i've almost finished i mean the last few
pages of the autobiography of benjamin
franklin
benjamin franklin put a lot of time and
effort into socializing with other men
nothing in his autobiography indicates
that he had an intellectual relationship
with his wife so i'm not hating on her
but we learned how we met her and how he
ended up marrying her and he was he was
trying to marry another woman and it
didn't work out he ends up you know
um
you know we had kids of this woman she
was involved with his life to some
extent but he put a lot of time into
these gentlemen's clubs he created
as kind of round table discussions where
they read a book and discuss the book
and they discuss
pardon me the kind of social change they
wanted to make a lot of civic virtues
stuff
just give you an example he set up a
street sweeping service for the
neighborhood he was always doing
fundraisers for things like this okay
let's all donate money and hire someone
to clean the streets this kind of thing
a lot of civic virtues
but you know there there isn't a single
relationship
mentioned or discussed in the book like
a relationship with another man that's
it that's important to him this way you
know i'm just giving you my honest
opinion based on reading his
autobiography as gregarious as he was as
much time as he was spending socializing
i feel like this guy really spent his
life alone like i feel like he just had
very shallow i mean cooperative
relationships with other men you know he
was a newspaper editor and there were
guys writing articles given to him yet
business relationships other men and so
on but i don't you know i don't think he
had anything like this in his life that
really challenged him and led him to let
him to grow in that kind of way so just
just mentioning um that that's one
that's an example that that you know
leads me to reflect that way i mean
reading the autobiographies of men
you're left to wonder were there more
important relationships that are just
omitted entirely or you know is this
just their way of writing about their
life as opposed to to how it really was
one of the autobiographies i read many
years ago was that of charlie chaplin
and you know likewise the shallowness of
his relationships with everyone other
than the woman he's having sex with at
that time is terrifying
charlie chapman had a huge number of
kids by the way with a bunch of
different yeah you know really
he had a he had a
he had a sex life that inspired uh
scandal and rumor in the press and he
ended up marrying a woman his last wife
who stayed with him was dramatically
younger than him and this also you know
excited a lot of a lot of gospeling what
have you
anyway okay so guys coming back to the
title of this video and i just mentioned
i'm uh uh
i'm paying attention to the the comments
as they as they pop up so you guys are
welcome to participate you're also
welcome to hit the thumbs up button you
can change your mind later and hit
thumbs down or you can undo the thumbs
up so that it's neither thumbs up and
thumbs down but if you hit thumbs up now
it'll help more people discover the
video and join in the topic um so a lot
of the advice i'm going to give here i'm
going to mention here
it does relate to
particular people i've known and
particular people have given advice to
uh in my life and you know it took some
time to reflect on this day and i do
think it's a real significance and
importance for for others um
[Music]
and very unusually i have a few things
written down on paper i almost never
make any notes before the last string
recording a video we have just just a
few notes
okay number one
i think it's really important that you
don't tell people what you're looking
for and that you don't tell yourself
what it is you're looking for
so you don't
you know use more technical parliaments
that you don't reify in your own mind
what it is you want or who it is you
want
this is quite a difficult discipline for
some people of actually being
open-minded of actually being willing to
meet people one at a time at a on a
one-by-one basis and i think on a deep
level what it requires
is the admission that you yourself don't
really know what it is you want or even
to put it more
scrupulously um that you don't know what
would be good enough for you like you
may have a sense of what the standards
are you're imposing and what it is you
want people to live up to so again i
feel all this stuff it really applies to
men and women you know equally whether
you imagine a man or a woman doing this
a lot of us go through our lives with a
definite set of criteria with a
checklist of of what it is they want a
partner to have and they people i mean
people at the office people at the
workplace people at the university with
their the other university students
people talk about this stuff openly and
loudly all the time they say oh well i
want to be with someone who is xy and
zed and
you know he or she has to have this
requirement in this requirement they
have to this that they have a whole list
of things set up in their mind and they
will talk about it openly they'll talk
about it they'll say it to someone who's
trying to flirt with them or start a
relationship with them right there you
know now
the reality is so i'll take i'll take an
easy example um okay let's let's do some
easy examples let's do some difficult
examples all right let's say
you meet a young man i i spend a lot of
time on university campuses still now
but have been for for many years i've
been on and off a student the university
i've been on and off an instructor at a
university too but let's say you you
meet a young man and while he's a
student in university he's saying all
the time that he's only interested in
japanese women what he really wants is a
japanese girlfriend or a japanese wife
okay let's fill in he's a bl he's a
white guy yeah in a university in the
west he's a white guy and he says this
is what he likes this is what he sees on
the internet you know this is what he's
into he's only looking for a japanese
girlfriend or a japanese wife now that
is going to have consequences in his
life now i'll go say further even if he
doesn't say it out loud to anyone if he
actually kept that to himself he doesn't
know if he just thinks that that's just
part of his internal monologue that's
going to impact his life here and now
it's going to close all kinds of doors
it's going to and people are going to
pick up on it
like you know when you're when you're
talking to other people face to face
even if you don't announce it if you
don't let it out you have set this
limitation for yourself you've created
this category
so this guy goes through university um
let's say he went to university in
chicago right and he's preparing for
this life he's fantasized about in japan
this is probably a life mostly made up
of ideas he's got from the internet or
maybe from movies or comic books or
something you know he's got this idea
built out of his life he gets none of
the kind of really requisite experience
of making a relationship work as a
result because he's got this fantasy
built up in his mind of what it is he's
looking for him what is he's going to
find in japan
naturally everybody is turned off by him
while he's at the university including
the small number of japanese women he
manages to meet while he's university
which tiny majority of the other
and then he goes to japan and you know
guess what
once he arrives in japan you know who he
is a whole lot in common with
he has a whole lot in common with the
white women who are living in japan
he has more in common with a white
american woman who's chosen to move to
japan and to start learning japanese and
to start trying to have a more
meaningful life over there someone who's
made a similar decision for for similar
reasons there's a lot of common ground
there there's the basis for a really
great relationship right and if you're
telling yourself that all you want is to
be with a japanese person if that's your
guiding right obviously you're not even
gonna consider that you're not gonna be
open right now the other horrifying
thing he's gonna realize this may be
obvious in in other examples is that
once he actually goes to japan once he
starts talking to japanese people every
day he's going to realize what we all
know if you're over the age of 30 you
already know this you don't like
japanese people you don't like japanese
women you like one japanese woman at a
10 thousand
and guess what if you were really being
honest with yourself if you were and if
you really had this kind of experience
in life which not everyone has if you
were meeting and talking to a lot of
scottish women you know what the truth
is you don't like scottish women you're
really interested in you could really
have a relationship with one scottish
woman out of ten thousand
you know what german women french women
like we could we can go down through the
list here the reality is that once you
really know who you are and who these
people are that actually it's going to
be really rare that you meet someone
you're compatible with intellectually
emotionally or otherwise you can have a
could have a great future with them and
what really matters
is not
whether or not they're they're japanese
now likewise you know if someone is
going around with a list in their mind
let's just say it's a woman who's going
to a conference i'm mentioning
conferences because that's where you can
meet people you know are going to be
like-minded you know in advance
so let's take it all the way back here
does anyone remember the old atheist
conferences these are one called
skepticon
skepticon the skeptic conference so
there were these conferences for people
who were atheists that were pro science
or antivirus and people would go there
to get laid
surprise surprise
so you know naturally um some woman
might go to one of these conferences and
let's say she has in her mind she wants
a man who was over six feet tall
someone who was
atheist and anti-religious and let's say
she also wants a guy who has an advanced
degree in the sciences like she just
made that up in her mind she's like well
you know really i want a guy who's got
at least like a master's degree in
physics or chemistry something like that
maybe thinking
mechanical engineering maybe but she'd
really like someone with an advanced
degree in in physics or chemistry that's
in terms of who she is that's what she's
looking for
well once she goes to that conference
just like the young man who went to
japan
you know what she's gonna discover it's
not every guy who's over six feet tall
it's not every guy who's got a degree in
chemistry you know advanced degree in
chemistry or physics right when you meet
these people and you start dealing with
them in real life you're gonna realize
even just at that conference
whoa the vast majority of these guys who
meet my checklist of requirements the
vast majority of them i'm not attracted
them
or even if i am attracted to them i
could never have a relationship that
works with these guys and then on the
contrary you've got to let yourself
really be open-minded maybe you meet a
guy who is five foot six like he's
shorter than six feet tall
and he has a university degree in
english literature he doesn't have a
degree in this let's say he has a phd in
the poetry of shakespeare
but when you meet him
you start to realize hey what's really
scarce here what's really you know
what's really rare that i have to value
and i have to act on is the common
ground i do have with this guy not the
common ground i don't have with him not
the things that he's lacking but it's
the things that he's got and that's what
i've got to work with and that hey this
is one guy in ten thousand you know i
could be attracted to when i'm
interested in him and he's interested in
me there's something really precious
there that you shouldn't reject him or
shut him down for that reason but i
would say the the power of this the
reason i say
don't tell other people what you want
don't tell other people what you're
looking for don't tell yourself what
you're looking for
is that what i see is both women and men
they tell themselves this again and
again and again
and then they can't even perceive it
when they meet that person they've
really got
you know common basis for relationship
they meet that person again whatever
he's five foot six and he's an english
literature whatever the reasons are or
again it's the young man he thinks he's
only looking for a japanese woman but
there's a he meets a white woman who's
studying japanese and really you have
more in common than someone you know or
but whatever that that man maybe he goes
around saying he wants to be with a
woman who's five years younger than him
and he meets a woman who's five years
older than him instead but you know like
are you letting yourself even see that
are you letting yourself even
talk to that person in a way where
you're going to discover how much common
ground you've got how much potential
you've got to really have a meaningful
relationship you know so uh you know
in terms of people i have known face to
face
i've known people who are so hung up on
tattoos
they were there are people who only want
a relationship with someone else who has
tattoos and there are people who can
never be attracted to someone who say
they will never be in a relationship
with someone who does have tattoos like
there are people who are who who
reject
anymore tattoos
and said can't even find track there
can't even look at them or want to see
them make it or something and there's
the opposite with the one i'm using this
this is an extreme example but i've
really known people like this and there
are people who have internalized some
kind of social hierarchy whether that's
you know bachelor's degree master's
degree phd or whatever they're people
who are like oh well he he's not even a
university graduates there are guys like
that maybe he's an electrician you know
maybe finished high school he got the
practical trade like plumbing or
electricity maybe he's a really great
guy maybe you can have a really great
life together in various ways but you
have to let yourself see that and so
much of what we do in relationships
and again
you're sabotaging yourself because
you're telling yourself this and you're
telling others this you're letting
everyone at your university know
everyone in your workplace know everyone
in your family know oh no no i'm only
interested in in this kind of guy who
meets these parameters and the reality
is
you know you could meet someone who
meets none of those criteria who doesn't
check any of those boxes on the
checklist
where it really works it really is you
really are attracted you can really have
a great sex life with them and maybe a
great love life a great intellectual
life great emotional life too and there
are once you meet enough of the people
who have all those check marks
you will realize that even within that
category
it is like one person out of ten
thousand so you might as well just stop
sabotaging yourself with the categorical
thinking
now
i don't know how many you people are
vegan in this audience
i'm trying to tell by my sense of smell
what percent of the audiences is vegan
right now right
but you know man
you know it's so easy to tell yourself
i want to be with someone who's vegan
right and for a lot of people like not
just the first six months that they're
vegan right but like maybe like the
first
10 years that you're vegan you haven't
met that many vegan people in real life
just like i'm sorry i know that example
might seem shallow but the young man
who's in university and says he only
wants to be with a japanese woman but he
doesn't really know many japanese people
he hasn't really lived in japanese
culture he hasn't known hundreds or
thousands of japanese women you know
maybe he did maybe he knew one japanese
girl in high school he really had eyes
for her or something but you know he
doesn't really have any deep knowledge
of the culture of people or just just
even what they look like or something
well up to a certain point as a vegan
and it can be ten years
you've only met and spoken to like five
other vegans and and just like that
young man has a fantasy about japan
based on what he saw on the internet
youtube reddit wherever wherever it gets
this fantasy or pornography or whatever
like you have your own fantasy about
what vegans are supposed to be who you
want them to be for you what it is how
you're gonna have all these other things
in common
and then if you actually get to know
hundreds or thousands of other vegans
i am in a position to say over seven
years i got to know thousands of other
vegans you were gonna realize whoa it's
like one person in ten thousand i've
really got some kind of common basis
with so even with something like that
even with something as important as that
you might as well flip it around and say
i'm
i don't know what i want i'm going to
profoundly admit to myself i don't know
who i'm trying to meet i don't know what
i want i'm going to meet people on a
one-by-one basis and if i meet someone
it's a really great guy it's a really
great woman you know whatever you're
pursuing if i meet someone that this can
really work with you can meet them and
then say to them look
i need you to live up to this standard i
need you to be vegan for you to be with
me that either it's either it's going to
work or not and sometimes you know
people try and they break up and they
get back together two years later or
five years later or whatever it is like
look you and i have something really
special something that we can build on
but you know there's there's there are
things you have to do to to be on my
level or to to make this worthy that
that is what most people are going to
end up doing because you realize that
even even something as crucially
important as vegan versus non-vegan that
you can't really make this work as a
category as a chicken market
so we got sympathy coming in from the
audience oh atlanta richard says that
he's in a doomed romance there's a woman
uh oh a particular woman or maybe
several women that he feels he can't
pursue because they're not vegan
man up what can i tell you you know
i mean i know what may seem hard
or impossible
um
a lot of interesting questions you know
uh i know it may seem hard or impossible
to meet someone and start to fall in
love with them or have them start to
fall in love with you i mean however
however far it goes and then say look
you know for this to go further i need
you to be vegan
what about quitting alcohol
and what about quitting gambling what
about quitting going to the nightclub
you know like
you know what about quitting smoking
actually the vegan thing it's not it's
not that hard on the spectrum
of these things it's not that hard what
about quitting islam what about quitting
mormonism like people people in
relationships act each ask each other to
make make huge commitments and huge
changes in their lives and they do you
know and i think oh this is the other
funny thing about relationships so i was
trying to hint at earlier how crucial
these relationships are and then i wish
you could have relationships like this
with your professor or somebody else but
it seems to almost always 99 of the time
it's someone you're in love with or
something right
why is it that people are willing to get
motivated and prioritize doing what they
need to do
in order to be a better person
for someone else
and not for themselves
that's the biggest riddle of all right
people people will so easily get
motivated like oh i gotta lose weight i
gotta get in shape i gotta get healthy
for my girlfriend for my boyfriend you
know i've gotta do this for someone else
but but you wouldn't do it for yourself
like you know six months earlier or two
months earlier or something right oh you
know i gotta quit gambling quit smoking
quit drinking i gotta get my i gotta do
this for
you know this woman i'm in love with oh
but first
what about you you don't count for
nothing you wouldn't do it just for
yourself you wouldn't quit gambling just
so you could be a better person oh no no
you're willing to be a better person for
someone else and by the way you see this
all the time with the religious
mentality there are all kinds of things
people wouldn't do something for
themselves but they'll do it for god
they'll do it for jesus they'll do it
for a statue there's a statue
they put on an alcove and they pray to
it and talk to it every morning and they
say to the statue i'm doing this for you
like they say to the statue okay i'm
going to give up eating meat you know
whatever it is
i'm going to give up gambling i'm going
to they'll be celibate or they're doing
it for this statue they won't do
it for themselves but the statue they're
motivated for right whether it's for god
or from some girl they're in love with
or something that's a really sick sad
part of human nature that you know what
we won't do for ourselves we will do for
for others so by the way it's
interesting from natasha natasha says
quote i appreciate that isil doesn't
refer to grown women as girls you know
the funny thing is in real life like off
camera i correct myself with that all
the time because in our culture you do
hear it all the time like you know i say
oh you know i remember i was talking to
this girl and i'll be like no no no
she was about 21. i'm a young woman you
know i do actually out loud correct
myself that way so no i i do think it's
a significant thing that we make the
effort to not say girl unless unless
you're genuinely talking about someone
young enough that they are they are a
girl um and you know what's funny i used
to fight about this as an editor all the
time so i was a newspaper editor i was
also an editor of non-fiction in books
and i would all the time kind of put the
hammer down and say
no we're not going to refer to
young women in their 20s as
and sometimes it would get it would get
dicey because they'd be like well okay
this is 18 or something you know is 18
uh a girl or is it an adult or is it
but yeah no no no no but i mean well
yeah but some people would say boy
melissa's been you know mentioning the
gym whether it's boy boy versus man or
something right and you know i mean
obviously in that case you can just say
teenager you can avoid the problem but
when you're actually editing when you're
actually rewriting someone else's text
and people will fight you you know
people want to use
especially girls but they do also use
boy boy is used there's the same kind of
cultural issues with boy in some ways
worse when there's racism involved or
something you know why are you calling
someone a boy when you could be going to
a man
but yeah
so we have a really shallow comment from
post human quote maybe the answer to
this riddle is selfish gene propagation
which unconsciously leads to such
commitments i'm sorry posthuman i'm
sorry but you're dead wrong
i'm sorry but there's no way
evolutionary psychology and genetics can
explain this one sorry heart hard no on
that
i know i know you're writing with no bad
intentions
okay so moving on to the next on my my
number list of notes all right so this
one um
this one's hard hitting for me and i
remember one male friend of mine in
particular i i talked about this a lot
with and i think a lot of you at first
you're not going to get what i'm talking
about you're going to feel feel
alienated from this and then if you just
think about it reflect for a few minutes
you'll see how it really matters in your
own life a lot of us suffer from what i
call the seinfeld syndrome
explanation
and this ultimately does come down to a
problem of being
selfish
self-centered
engaging in short-term thinking but to
some extent it's also dehumanizing the
other people who are in your life
uh potentially or actually the other
people you're you you have sex with or
that you're trying to have sex with and
have sex with yet your potential
partners or actual partners now i call
this the seinfeld syndrome i used to
many years ago i used to talk about tv
shows like beverly hills 90210 pardon me
as an example of this but i think nobody
remembers the tv show in beverly hills
not to know
seinfeld was a comedy show where
pretty much every week there would be a
new girlfriend who emerged in this man's
life
they would romance each other fall in
love to some extent and then next week
there's a new woman that he's dating
and nothing in his own life
would change he didn't do anything
for these women the furniture in his
apartment didn't change you know he
wasn't making their lives better in any
way right he also wasn't learning
anything from them or changing as with
many american tv shows there's a sort of
artificial sense in which each of the
characters is static where each episode
it's as if the whole world resets and
begins again and there's no particular
progression in the plot or the no
character development or what have you
um
but
many men i have known
maybe one woman i've known they live
their lives in such a way that they feel
there's this one
lego brick in the wall there's this one
space in their lives for someone to come
into their apartment and have sex with
them and then leave and that's it
they live like seinfeld where they are
going to continue living their own lives
in their own terms they are going to
continue pursuing their own story in
which they are the main character and
the people they have sex with come into
their lives as a kind of accessory as a
kind of incidental and evanescent
addition that adds some color to their
lives and then disappears now um
i draw your attention back to the title
of this video and again this is not
about incels we're here talking people
who can get laid but nevertheless
they're complaining about why they can't
get laid they're either not getting laid
as much as they want to or they're
they're not having the kind of
relationships they're they're hoping to
have
um
you know i remember talking face-to-face
with a male friend of mine about this
and i don't i wasn't exactly using
socratic dialogue but i was asking
questions in a very barbed way to get
him to uh
to get him to really reconsider
and i remember saying to him
so
your assumption is
she won't come over to your apartment
and he was just kind of confused but i
was like so what your assumption is
you'll go to a hotel room your
assumptions would go to her apartment
and you know he was kind of like
answering but he was you could see he
was kind of mystified
right and um
the next time you go to visit your
parents
you're going to take her with you
that's good questions
he had not thought about at all
right
and um
i was like the bed in your apartment
i've never been to his apartment it's a
single bed or a double bed
you gonna buy a new bed
like he's he's really flabbergasted
about this he hadn't thought about this
this wedding
and so i asked a series of leading
questions and what i said to him was you
know which he didn't see coming at all
he didn't see where these questions were
leading or was going to i said
you assumed that you were gonna do
absolutely nothing for this woman
you assume that you are not going to
change your life in any way
for her you are thinking about this
woman like you're hiring her to come and
clean your apartment and then leave
you're looking at this as a service that
is going to come into your life and exit
leaving you unchanged right like that
that's how you're really thinking about
this woman it doesn't even occur to you
that you are going to have to change for
her that you're going to have to provide
some kind of meaningful life for her
that you're going to live some kind of
life together
now
the conversation progressed but you know
my ultimate point was that i said to him
i mean this you know you've got to be
pretty good friends to say this to a man
but you know i said to him look on a
really deep level you think of women as
prostitutes you know you are thinking
about these relationships in terms of
like how much money do you have to spend
and how much time and effort do you have
to spend to have sex with this woman and
then that's all it is to you right now
this may seem like a huge leap from
the seinfeld tv show to this real life
experience so this one guy this friend
of mine that as you can tell i was quite
tough on but it's not
you know the seinfeld tv show
shows you this one kind of narrow
snippet of a man's life and it gives you
none of the women's perspective by the
way
you know
and you know it shows you a few amusing
dialogues between seinfeld and the woman
he's dating at the time and you laugh at
it and then again she disappears as
inexplicably as she appears and it's
always presumed that to some extent the
wealth and fame of seinfeld makes it
easy for him to have this series of
relationships with each other okay so
that that woman who should have you
think in her own life she is not the
main character in her story as opposed
to being a minor supporting character
inside felt sorry so this woman we're
talking about a fictional character here
but if this were a real woman in a real
situation so she's not thinking about
having children she's not thinking about
her career and her education options and
making different decisions
for the man in her life and where you're
going to live and what you're going to
do together like there aren't long-term
implications to this relationship for
her and what it means for her and like
you know again in terms of having a
human heart like this person isn't a
prostitute she's being treated like a
prostitute she's just being treated as a
sex object and then started you think
she isn't falling in love i think this
doesn't change the way she feels about
herself and the way she looks back on
the relationships you had in the past
the way she looks at relationships yet
in the future you know
i mean
if you just think a few steps deeper
about what the relationship means to
both of the parties involved and what
demands each is making on the other you
know
i know these these sitcoms they tend to
focus on the most shallow and trivial
things like whether or not you're
willing to change
the style of clothes you wear for the
other person in your life you know
any relationship
the books you read will change
the conversations you have about the
books you're reading will change right
like you know
do you think this is trivial i don't you
know like just at that level right like
this is really deep so how far how far
are you going to go for the person your
life
uh i'm sorry i'm not gonna get the name
uh out of my youtube channel there was a
time uh a long time ago so by the way so
i've said before i would love it if
these kinds of questions could be um
you know could be applied to non-sexual
relationships also that'd be great but
for most people they never i had a
friend who was just a friend
and i remember uh she was talking to me
about a youtube video i made at that
time criticizing a particular spiritual
leader i'm sorry i'm not gonna get the
name doesn't matter but at that time i
made a video
you know i'm an atheist skeptical person
and this friend of mine she's also an
atheist she's also a skeptical person
and she said you know that she had read
the autobiography of this guy i think so
if not it was some other book and she
said you know actually she saw a lot of
value in his work
now i remember i sent her a voice
message rather than text because you
might not get the sincerity if it was
just text
and i said look you know
i've got to tell you
like
you know
i did like two hours of research before
making that youtube video like you know
i feel like at the time i knew how many
hours maybe it was three hours maybe it
was four hours but it was not so look i
am not an expert on this on this guy you
know like this that i just made a
youtube video about let's say it was
four hours let's be generous whatever it
was you know but like you know i read
about this for a couple of hours and
then put together this this youtube
video and like
you know like i don't know him i don't
know this spiritual group but i know you
and if you're telling me that his like
his autobiography is worth reading this
is meaningful and important
i'm willing to listen like i'm i'm
interested in what you find worthwhile
about this and i'm willing to do more
reading like you know maybe i'll delete
my earlier youtube videos you know maybe
i'll actually reconsider that extent but
it's like look i'm you know i take
seriously you know your perspective now
you know as it happened the rest of the
conversation didn't didn't go that way
you know it was more of a situation
where she she did explain what it was
she found interesting about the guy's
autobiography and it was kind of like
well you know he comes out of this
background then he questioned that
background he took a new direction he's
like you know there was some kind of
human sympathy things there but it
wasn't something where i was going to
the boy it didn't it didn't motivate me
to read the book and it didn't kind of
totally change my view of this guy it
just sort of
showed a more human sympathetic side of
this this kind of cult leader in my in
my opinion uh but the person i was
talking to say she was a secular atheist
person she was not a cult follower or a
devotee of this guy at all but you know
my point is like
if you if you think about this as just
one little lego brick missing from your
life and you know sometimes one person
takes that position and sometimes
they're discarded and a new person takes
that position right this is a kind of
fundamentally unbelievably selfish and
destructive attitude towards uh the
relationship life and what's really
tremendously important is that instead
you're open to the extent to which
you know simply put you are going to be
living your life for another person and
you are going to be living your life
with another person i mean sorry but i
think that's a great example like
there's something you've okay like this
cult leader
so i've read a newspaper article about
the cult leader it's just simple let's
just i've looked up a couple newspaper
articles but now i'm talking to someone
who's read a whole book and knows more
than i do and who's a friend of mine or
you're in love with them or whatever
your situation is okay and like i said
well well look i don't know the truth i
don't know him i only know these couple
newspaper articles i read i read the
wikipedia article
i read the wikipedia article on some
newspaper just a little bit of research
you know okay so that's that's what i
know
but if you know more about this and if
you care about if you have a perspective
okay i want that to come into my life
and i want that to change my life and
you know maybe i'm going to read a book
or i'm going to read another article i'm
going to change my view and i'm going to
i'm going to hear what you have to say
so guys that is not shallow that is not
a minor thing and i think you guys can
you can uh
you can imagine easily enough you're
going to listen to this
broadcast for an hour and a half
melissa is talking to me
12 hours a day or something you know
like the the influence i have on her
life
uh her intellectual development and the
questions that are raised and just
reconsideration of things you might have
taken for granted right when you really
live with someone and really care about
someone and i don't know everything
sometimes we sometimes talk about things
i don't i know nothing about you know
what i mean the point is not that i know
about everything or care about
everything but by by involving uh the
person in your life that way
you've got to be willing to change a lot
more than just your furniture you know
uh i could digress i mean obviously it's
possible to go too far you know it's
possible to be willing to change
everything in your life and expect
nothing in return it's possible to be
too self-sacrificing if you've been
watching my channel for a long time you
know i made a video about that years ago
yeah about four years ago
you know you can go too far to the
extreme the other way but what i see in
this generation for men and women alike
instead is a big problem with uh
the seinfeld syndrome okay
guys if you have a moment hit thumbs up
share the link if you want to if you've
got anywhere to share it with your
worthless friends on
facebook and instagram that you haven't
talked to in years i am glancing now at
the at the comments but there's nothing
particular to derail me i'll continue on
the next point here
so one guy in the audience says that
he's taking these principles and
applying them to his uh
platonic relationships
um
you know richard like you know good luck
with that
my experiences in life that the platonic
relationships that i have
nobody is
motivated enough to to really
pardon me to inconvenience themselves to
really keep the relationship going
pardon me my point being if someone
isn't in love with you
will they really make the time will they
really make it a priority to keep the
the friendship going now you know if
they do that's great i'm happy for you
i'm just saying most of my experience
there's so many people i've met there
people i met became friends with it
cambridge university at oxford
university in bangkok thailand in
nangkai chiang mai you know i've lived
all over the world in in france there
were people who could be my friends
still today
and
you know they they didn't make the
effort you know in that sense they they
let me down
and then on the other hand you know the
people who do make the effort very often
there's something non-platonic there
that's um
that's motivating it but you know if you
got uh platonic friendships um
[Music]
you know it's that's a wonderful thing
and you know to to some extent
uh you know just the geography of your
life is a part of that you know a
brief digression i know i've mentioned
this before when you were around korean
ojibwe people
out in saskatchewan they really had this
cultural expectation that they'd bump
into you again they're used to living in
these small communities in remote parts
of canada where they'd say goodbye to
you and i'd be like look if you don't
take my email
and like if you don't become my facebook
friend if you don't connect you're never
going to see me again they wouldn't get
it oh i'll see you around yeah no great
they were real and they were they were
being sincere they weren't giving you
the culture like for them culturally
they really expected like they're used
to growing up in communities where you
can't get away from people like but
we're minimum once a week you bump into
everybody who lives in that community i
remember when i told my father about
that and he mentioned a small town in
france he knew i think he lived in the
small town of france for three months or
something doing a project like for work
he'd been there for a couple months and
he said you know
he'd never been anywhere else where
people would make an arrangement to see
you by just saying i'll see you tomorrow
when i'm going to the bakery like no
time no location
i mean but you where you could meet
every single person in town by sitting
at the coffee shop that it was the
crossroads in the middle so you know
there are some differences so to have to
have platonic relationships in that i
was never in that small town in france
you said my father told me about but in
that small town in france or something
maybe that's maybe that's different
but you know you live in a big city
anywhere i mean you know melissa is from
the greater detroit area
you have to drive for an hour to see
anyone like just in a different
neighborhood
when i was in los angeles i did meet up
with some friends in los angeles and
when they got there it's like okay how
many hours did you have to get here like
for one or two people the location i
chose was a quick drive then for those
oh yeah they drove an hour they drove 45
minutes like people have to
you know it's a huge amount of effort so
yeah you know if you don't if you're not
in love with the person are you really
motivated to uh
to make that
make that happen
yeah turn vel says that uh
uh it's been very hard for him or her to
keep long-term friendships with the
exception being being people he or she
has known since middle school
um
yeah i don't want to get into a big
digression of that but melissa and i
talk about that a fair bit that we have
a culture where people tend to rely on
just keeping friends they've had since
high school or primary school and i
think there's a strange kind of weakness
that comes into that individually and
culturally which is that they don't
build up the capacity to make new
friends as adults which could be a very
big problem
um
okay
so all right
this one this one's a little bit more
critical in the pejorative sense this is
a little more blamey can we say that is
blamey a word no
don't get defensive guys
this one's a little bit more blamey
um
all right
there are
short-term relationships that you're
intentionally
there are short-term relationships that
you are intentionally and consciously
pursuing short-term relationships there
are long-term relationships that you are
intentionally and consciously pursuing
as long-term relationships
there are long-term relationships that
fail
and turn out to be short-term
relationships
and there are short-term relationships
that fail
and turn out to be long-term
relationships can can you imagine the
square here guys
short-term
long-term
meant to be long-term but turns out to
be short-term
meant to be short-term
but turns out to be long-term
um
you tell me if this is more of a problem
for women or men in the current
generation i've i've known my share of
both with this problem
a lot of people
from age 18 to 25 if not 18 to 35
but for the crucial
first quarter of their life
they say they don't want anything
serious they only want short-term
relationships
and that's all they have
right they don't pursue they don't try
to have long-term relationships and i
think they really cannot imagine the
extent to which they're sabotaging
themselves
because then whenever it is they switch
whenever they switch to wanting a
long-term relationship or marriage or
having kids or even though there's no
kids involved when they switch to
wanting to have a more meaningful life
and more meaningful relationships they
don't know
how
they are in a much worse position
than someone who from age 18 to 25 was
trying to have long-term relationships
and failing
like if you have two people and let's
just say they both had
20 sexual partners
is this too high
let's say you have two people and
between the ages of 18 and 30
both of these people had 20 different
sexual partners
but one of them with each and every one
of those relationships was trying to
make it
like
their long-term life partner
relationship they were trying so what
does that mean they did the dishes
together
they shined each other's shoes they
helped each other they talked about job
interviews and work they met each
other's parents
all 20 times took even induced to my
parents and they were trying to make it
work
as a marriage okay
that person has really been practicing
they've really been rehearsing and
refining what it takes the discipline of
mind the generosity of spirit the type
of cooperation
right that's required to make a
long-term relationship working to have
have a meaningful life together with
another person or with other people
plural if you're in the minority who
have some kind of
three-row three-way relationship
polyamory open relationship whatever
because regardless i mean that's just at
a higher skill level really you know if
you have more than two people involved
but it's by
trying to build long-term relationships
even if you fail again and again that
you learn
to have long-term relationships
and there are all these people
there are no statistics there are all
these people who go from age 18 to 30
and even if they've had 20 sexual
partners
every single one of them was declaredly
or validly
a short-term low-commitment relationship
you didn't introduce them to your
parents you didn't really get to know
them that way you didn't really ever
trust them and trusting someone can lead
you having your heart broken and being
disappointed but you learn from that and
you take that learning experience
putting into your next relationship put
in the future right you didn't really
trust them you didn't really commit to
them all the way again even if that
would would end badly right
and i know i know it's going to sound
weird to some of you
but did you really do their dishes
did you really shine their shoes did you
really help them get dressed
before they went to a job interview did
you really talk to them about how the
job interview went afterwards it's
totally different
in a short-term relationship like if you
are in a short-term
low-commitment relationship you may not
be aware of it but like you call someone
oh oh we're gonna meet up tonight
oh oh right right right you got that job
interview okay cool cool cool cool
tomorrow okay tomorrow at six okay i'll
pick you up
you know
you may not know but like okay what if
this is the person you're planning to
marry you're planning to have kids
you're trying to make it work long term
it's different
okay and again even if you fail even if
you're terrible at it you know you'll
learn that you're terrible at it right
you'll have to adapt like oh okay
you know all right you're going to a job
interview how can i help
you know maybe i help by just doing more
of the dishes for a couple days or
something you know what i mean maybe you
know we'd be helping some shell away
then but you help by talking to them
about it by caring about it you know
there's a lot to think about and a lot
to agonize over with those decisions in
life and where you're really involved
together
talking as if you know
you know as if this matters forever and
you're you're building up those you're
building up those uh those skills turn
of all says
quote i hope we do the hot crazy matrix
chart next
turn of all that is an obscure cultural
reference that i have already addressed
on my channel so i don't know if he's
saying that because he knows it or not
but i have already made a dedicated
youtube video on that very topic so i
could give you the uh
i could give you the link but i don't
know if i don't know if i need to
um
okay natasha you're going to get your
question just a second
uh atl richard says quote i did not come
here for you to explain my life's
mistakes
how wrong you are richard
um
well look so what i just said i i i
invited you to ask yourself what i was
talking about here
is this more true of young men or young
women
it's easier for young women you know
like
if young women just want to have a
sexual partner with no strings attached
with no commitment
that's more attainable for women than
for men like they have to make less
effort
unless you're an extremely good looking
or extremely wealthy man or something
for a man to go out and have a
succession of of low
low commitment uh short-term
relationships i just say it's more work
um and i've known guys to live that way
i just i've never lived there i've
i think i can use his name i had a
friend named gregoire
he was french what a shock
and i mean um he's one of the few people
i've known he he probably had sex with
more than one thousand women but if not
it was many hundreds and i saw the way
he lived and i saw the time he put into
it and you know i mean it was it was a
discipline i was you know it was work
you know obviously he was he had sex
with a huge number of women and you
could say well it's not that much work
well yeah but i mean for a for a good
looking woman to have zero commitment uh
relationships that might be easier
however
the stigma is greater for women you know
the question of self-respect is very
different for most women not all there's
nothing there's no gender essentialism
here
but you know obviously that guy i
mentioned gregoire
it was very interesting to hear his
perspective on the world i mean like i
learned a lot from him even if though i
did not want to live a life like like he
did at all
um obviously his respect for himself
only increased
by sleeping with large numbers of women
that he had no meaningful relationship
with and i remember talking about he he
really appreciated the questions i was
asking because i was already cagey and
insightful enough to ask some questions
i remember talking about the
significance of lying
i said yeah but okay but like you say
you have so like you don't hate yourself
like you're not crying yourself to sleep
at night for firstly
but what about the lies doesn't it ever
come back to you how you lied or what if
what about the girl breaking down
weeping you know whether it's the next
day or the next week the next month what
about when you lied and they figure out
that you're lying and they break down i
was asking questions like that and he
loved it he loved being challenged he
was really happy to have someone you
know
just cross-examining him about his
philosophy and what it what it really
meant in his life you know and you know
he was willing to have a laugh at his
own expense he wasn't he wasn't thin
skinned about it you know
um yeah so he he had slept with an
enormous number of women and i just
mentioned most of his career
he was in the uh the hotel industry one
way i could tell this guy's whole life
story but
you know keeping it slightly anonymous i
don't i honestly i don't think he might
he'd mind me talking about people but
yeah i don't think he might mind if i
told this whole life story frankly um
but working at hotels he did meet women
who were in town for just a few days
where there were short-term uh
short-term love affairs but anyway yeah
um
so this this particular issue it may be
a little bit different for women and men
in terms of the amount of work you have
to put in to get the same outcomes but
fundamentally and profoundly i do not
think this is different for women i
think this is fundamentally the same or
it's only five percent different or
or or ten percent different all right so
question from oh so another good comment
from natasha versus natasha says quote
red pillars fear vulnerability yes
yes it's a huge issue
and it's a huge issue for women also you
know there are women who do not want to
be vulnerable and that leads to other
decisions made by women it's just not
called the red pill when women do it
okay uh quote quoting natasha natasha
asks
isil what are your thoughts about
short-term relationships that are meant
to be short-term that later evolve to be
long-term by circumstance
in one word tragic
okay happens all the time
and you know what
you know what the most common reason is
it's
pregnancy
you know
one of my brothers
had someone over to tour his apartment
you know we're like i don't think he was
looking for a roommate i think it was
like he was gonna leave the apartment
and he had to sublet it to someone else
something like that he invited someone
over to tour the apartment to take a
look at the apartment before deciding
whether or not she was gonna rent it
they had sex on the floor
and the child that was conceived is a
fully grown adult today
there was absolutely no basis for that
relationship
nothing in common no
mutual respect no admiration no nothing
you know
and the woman's situation was that she
had already had multiple abortions i
forget if it was two abortions or three
she already knew what it was like to
have an abortion so i forget i'm sorry
but she had had as i recall more than
one abortion and she said that she made
herself a promise after the last time
she had an abortion that she'd just
never do it again
well there's something else you should
have promised yourself that you'd never
do again if that was your perspective
and um you know i'm out of touch with
those people i i haven't been on
speaking with any of my brothers for for
many many years
but uh they they were those two they
ended up just hating each other you know
they managed to kind of cooperate for a
couple years for the sake of the baby
you know but ooh that got dark that got
really really dark uh that relationship
and you know in case you guys are
imagining this brother has anything in
common with me like intellectually or
morally or something no uh he really
doesn't we might as well be two
different species of mammal frankly i
have nothing in common with that brother
he's not he's not like me in any way
um
so yeah i mean that's my short answer
that natasha and i think again there's a
there's a very interesting kind of self
sabotage
um let's let's take it all the way so
the question is what about
relationships that were meant to be
short term but that turn out to be
long term
let's talk about prostitution
what if a woman and a man meet because
the woman is working as a prostitute and
the man
pays her for sex and then you know they
get to know each other and get to like
each other and things whether or not she
gets pregnant or whether or not there
are other factors or something right
i i think it's always going to be tragic
you know and i think even uh if you go
kind of the opposite extreme where it's
you know people who are on some
temporary work assignment and they're
just looking for a short-term fling
while they're on vacation or while
they're on this work summit i i think it
has more in common with prostitution
than you you might at first suspect uh
short-term relationships meant to be
meant to be short-term and i'm not
saying this to demonize prostitutes or
or
john's or anything else
you know we're all human you know um i i
totally demonize gambling i totally
demonize the drinking of alcohol in the
future on planet earth there should be
zero gambling and zero drinking of
alcohol there are all kinds of things
i'm totally morally opposed to but you
know human sexuality is not something
we're gonna outgrow or overcome or
eliminate
so you know we do have to tolerate
prostitution in our society no matter
how inconvenient or disturbing it may be
in different ways and how exactly you
tolerate it legally is a big question in
political science what the best way to
do that is to minimize other negative
consequences there's a lot to say there
but
you know without dehumanizing anyone
involved in those short-term
relationships um if you say to me
that you think it's possible to just
overcome that and have a positive
long-term relationship as if it had been
intended to be a long-term relationship
from the start i basically say no i
think it's i think it's really always
going to be tragic
okay so great question from ron this
comes back tonight was talking about
melissa off camera before so ron asks
quote my question for you and others in
the chat would it be preferable to be
single not have sex or be involved with
anyone at all until you develop yourself
so you know there is this ancient saying
in english
if you can't handle the orange peel you
can't handle the orange and melissa and
i have talked about that lately it's
just come up in different circumstances
whether related to friends or politics
or whatever it is that yeah there really
is a sense in which a lot of people need
to make the hard decision that they they
can't cope with their relationship they
can't handle what's involved what's
involved with it so they should they
shouldn't be in a relationship at all
just one of the ones that came up is
well at what point are you able to stand
up to your own parents
so like you know you have a new
girlfriend or new boyfriend you
introduce this person to your parents
you introduce the person you're in love
with your parents and they disapprove or
want to want you to break up if you
can't handle the orange peel you can't
handle the orange if you can't handle
that if you can't stand up to your own
parents
you shouldn't be in a relationship at
all it's not i'm not saying your parents
are right
whether your parents are right or wrong
doesn't matter if you aren't at the
point
where you can articulate these things
and talk about them and stand up to your
own parents about them you shouldn't be
in a relationship that's just one
example
but i think i think there are a lot of
examples where you can say look this is
the kind of red line where this is
showing that you are not ready to ready
to deal with this
and
you know
what happens when you do something
you're not
ready for
when it comes to human sexuality you're
normally talking about trauma that
marrows your life for decades i'm just
gonna be real with you i mean
if you if you read a book and you're not
ready for it yet it's really not the
same thing you know what i mean it's
really not
um nothing else is human sexuality that
way you know what i mean i'm sorry i'm
sorry any of you guys in the audience we
may have some young people we have some
some more people here but like
there are things
that you might have done at age 30
sexually
where if you had done them at age 20
they would have been horrifying and
traumatizing and and messed you up i
don't even say for life you might have
messed up for five years like i'm gonna
take you five years to get over it you
know when you talk about people who are
35 they can go to an orgy and they don't
care i mean there are so many like
you're so jaded and experienced by 35
like oh yeah i'm gonna stand here in the
corner and smoke a cigarette while
watching my husband have sex with
another woman and it's just whatever
there are all kinds of people who get to
that at 35 but there are people who do
that
while they're in college at age 18. most
people it's the opposite right they do
all that stuff when they're way too
young to cope with it they're doing that
at 18 and then you know
at 35 they're boring and monogamous you
know so like there's all kinds of things
that that like they wouldn't be
traumatizing if you were ready for them
if people put themselves into the
situation when they're when they're not
ready for them and look you know um the
the ultimate thing is just you know most
relationships involve people
screaming at each other weeping being
dejected you know the greatest extremes
of both happiness and sorrow happen
within relationships and sometimes for
for relatively trivial reasons give you
give you a great example you know
i had a blonde ex-girlfriend
she's been mentioned before i never give
her name
lucky for me i only have one blonde
ex-girlfriend
i had a blonde ex-girlfriend and we were
going into a situation where i was gonna
go talk to a book publisher these are
the days this is when i was going to
publish a book this is a million years
ago book about buddhism and say okay i'm
going to sit down with this guy and have
a series of long meetings i've already
been together with this girl for years
very attractive
very attractive girl
i could go on about how attractive she
was she was a bimbo okay she was really
not intelligent enough to be with me she
really wasn't and i was like look you
know
i've taken you into a whole series of
like business situations where like i
was meeting my boss i was in some kind
of high pressure degree or even when i
took you to meet my parents you know and
you have you have ruined it you have
done terribly like it's been a disaster
every time she would say something so
stupid i didn't have to dig myself out
of a hole it's like you know what you
know what
when i'm sitting down with this guy and
talking business
about the manuscript
what i would really appreciate is if you
you leave the room and you you don't say
anything at all you don't
like because i've already been together
with her for years i was like look this
is a serious conversation with my book
publisher it's going to change the rest
of my life
it would really be great if you didn't
screw it up for me by seeing something
stupid like you've said in every single
high pressure and professional situation
i've ever been in with you you know what
i mean
you know so the actual format where this
meeting took place it wasn't really in
one room
um
i'm sorry i could i could describe the
whole situation but it was a situation
that was quite easy for her to kind of
walk in and out of
um open let's say it was an open plan
office put it that way okay so you know
it's not yeah
so you know we have kind of we meet the
publisher we have initial chit chat talk
about this and that
actually that conversation that stage
goes goes really well i'm talking with
this guy about politics and history and
book publishing and research and
where books are imported and exported
from at that time i knew that kind of
stuff we're talking about importing
books from india and things and various
things call and it's like okay let's sit
down and get the business so we sit down
at something that's more like a
boardroom table
and
you know my girlfriend takes off
and in the middle of this and it's in
quite a tense part of of the
negotiations
you know about about this book
she come she runs with them she doesn't
even walk she runs into the room like a
little kid
and says the stupidest thing you could
possibly say for no reason
you know interrupting our our
conversation and the funny thing was
before she said it she she runs and she
says oh can i just say one thing
and i said her you know i really prefer
if you didn't like we're really in the
middle
and then she goes on to see
you know
and so this guy the the book publisher
you know she she found that her own
she's a real attractive girl she's
really good looking girl she's at the
time she's in the primary life and i
mean he just he's an older dude he just
knows
he's just sitting there he's looking at
me like
you like bimbos like this is what you
put up
like that is it you know what i mean
like he did say a few words to me i mean
i forget he said this is this is totally
not what he said verbatim but he said
the equivalent of like
yeah that's uh that's quite a quite a
spark plug you've got there so he said
something
witheringly
contemptuous of like yeah i can see that
you are a highly intellectual man who
has chosen to have in your life a woman
who is vastly inferior to you in terms
of intellect and self-discipline like
you know yeah it knows you know yeah
it's a real
no he wasn't even saying i have bad
taste in women or something i think his
perspective was like well i can see
where your priorities lie young man you
know
um
[Music]
yeah
and i remember when i got back to oh i'm
just going to simplify i'll say our
hotel room the actual arrangements are
more complicated but we'll say it's a
hotel room i got back there and we're
sleeping tonight
i got back
and she's there
and she's sitting there
silently and she said can we just not
talk about this at all can we just never
mesh
[Music]
all right so ron sims goes out in a limb
here and admits something ron sims says
that he turned 30 just a few days ago
and is still a virgin
he avoids the whole relationship and sex
things because he is still not where he
wants to be well ron you know
you got to learn how to do dishes you
got to learn how to do dishes with
someone you got to learn how to do
dishes
for someone you know you got to learn
how to live together in a you know
really positive way yep natasha says
talk about an incompatible relationship
exclamation point lol that's correct
yeah it was incompatible in every way
including sexually the sex was really
bad for me it was great for her
i think i think i've never experienced
that before since frankly an
asymmetrical artist it was an absolutely
terrible relationship i completely
regret it but i could also sit here and
tell you exactly why i got involved and
exactly why i got committed to it and
you know
um you know
it for me it meant so much just to have
somebody to laugh with just have someone
to tell jokes with
during those years of my life and
you know there was not there was really
nothing good in that relationship
but you know
um
[Music]
yeah and i i i gave that relationship
for me i was planning to spend the rest
of my life with her i was i was working
as hard in that relationship as i would
as if we were married and trying to make
it work for life i absolutely put 110
and i got so much less work done on
everything else in my life as a result
like all like all the hours sunk into
that but yeah
anyway yeah but ron i'm just mentioning
that about doing dishes because it's
very easy for people to think that sex
is the issue or attracting people's
issue that these other things the issue
and i'm just saying there is actually an
art to how you live with someone day by
day how you share an apartment how you
share your life and that's something
you're not practicing so obviously sex
itself
it's a skilled art in its way
but um yeah i'm just saying there are
these other things that are that are
less often talked about that i'll
certainly matter okay so
the last thing
which could have been first that's
tremendously important is this and guys
you can tell me if you relate to this or
not
if you think of your life as a series of
circles you know so you've got a circle
for your career
you've got a circle for like your
intellectual life which may be your
education or what you're interested in
personally uh your own self-development
or what have you if you have you know
you may have a circle separately for
family not everyone does what is your
what is your family life if your life is
separated into
circles in this way that may be
intellectual maybe emotional maybe
aspirational i know people overuse that
word now you may have different
ambitions that form different circles in
your life like for me i had a circle in
my life for humanitarian work for years
i had a circle in my life for vegan
activism for trying to change the world
through this particular type of
political activism but you you may have
a circle in your life for
being a film critic or something too
there may be some particular thing like
even if you don't earn money doing it
you know and of course you may have you
may have a very important circle for for
earning money um and these things you
know if you think of sex as just one
more additional circle that's outside of
these things i really do think that's a
crucial reason for why you are not
getting laid
right
now all these things i mean in terms of
my numbered list of of issues i've gone
over in this video i think a lot of
people might respond to you and say well
really you're talking about things that
become problems
after the relationship has started and
what i'm saying here is no no no i'm not
um
the way you think about your potential
relationships in the future the way or
the way you think about your own actual
relationships in the past it shapes the
way you interact with others it shapes
the flirtations you have and don't have
and what what comes next to them when
you think about sexuality not as a
separate circle or a separate interest
you know something supplemental to and
outside of your career
that your education how you're
developing intellectually and and your
family life when you think of it instead
as one circle in the middle
that overlaps with all of them right
it leads to very different relationships
in your life short term and long term
the way that you talk to people the way
that you involve people in your life is
very different short term and long term
now i think the easiest
example of this to relate to is family
even though many people in the audience
may you may not get along with your
family you may not think that
introducing people to your family is a
great idea or it's very enjoyable for
for for them for your family for
yourself etc you know but it's the one
that's easiest easiest to visualize in
[Music]
canadian culture in american culture i
think i can say that the assumption is
that people sleep to sleep together this
especially urban united states of
america you may have sex with a person
you may be having sex with multiple
people while not telling each of them
about the other you're having low
commitment or no commitment
uh relationships and then there's some
point at which that short-term
relationship matriculates into is
promoted into being serious enough that
you introduce these people to your to
your family that you include them in
your family
what i point out to you is that many
people also sabotage themselves in the
same way by saying okay this is just a
person you're pursuing sexually this is
just a person you're you're gonna have
sex with but you're not introducing them
to your intellectual life that you're
not introducing them to your career
you're not involving them with these
these other things in your life and it
would be very different
if you involve people in your life that
way from day one
and as they say i'm not here giving
advice
about how to conduct a relationship
after you've
begun it i'm actually talking about your
attitudes
before the relationship has begun
you know
some of you can relate to this some of
you aren't whether you think of this as
a man or a woman i think this applies to
men and women exactly the same
way you know if there's someone you
think is hot
and you meet them at the workplace you
meet them at the university if there's
someone you meet and talk to every so
often maybe you know them at your gym i
don't know what's a good example
maybe the gym is the best example maybe
the worst so every so often you chat
with this person at the gym
and you are just looking at them and you
are just talking to them thinking that
you want to have sex with them and that
you want to incorporate them into your
life as a sexual partner in this
separate circle this separate category
for for sexual partners right obviously
this relates to some extent to the the
seinfeld syndrome you know um
talked about earlier every conversation
you have with them and literally even
how you look at them
is different than if you were looking at
them as a whole person
and that you were presenting yourself as
a whole person
and you were talking them in a way where
you're going to integrate them into your
whole life
now so some of you guys maybe you'll
have to think about this after maybe you
can think about it right now can you
think about times when you were you were
hitting on someone you were approaching
someone you were sexually trying to
initiate a relationship with someone
whether you think about it seduction or
or first conversation okay
did you mention anything about your
family
did you like i'm not saying would be the
main thing you talk about did you
include your family life in those
conversations or were you consciously or
unconsciously kind of anonymizing
yourself you know like kind of
presenting yourself as an anonymous
sexual partner because you were thinking
of that other person as a kind of
anonymous sexual partner also it's just
fitting into this into the circle into
this category and look i i understand
there are there are people for whom that
works there are people who go to
swingers clubs
and go to go to mask parties and they
never know anything about the people
there i i understand there's a tiny
minority of the population who prefer
completely anonymous dehumanized and
dehumanizing relationships that's
obviously not what i'm addressing here
also if i give you guys fitness and
weight loss advice that is not intended
for people who are already olympic
athletes you know what i mean and you
know
for the tiny percentage of the
population who prefer relationships that
are both dehumanizing and you know where
they themselves are also dehumanized you
know you may imagine that's the most
gratifying and satisfying life to lead
if you know any of those people living
that way they they weep into their
pillow often enough
that has its own tragedies that has its
own its own tribals but i'm saying that
already from
you know
step one you know already from the first
step of the first conversation the way
you present yourself the way you talk
about yourself the way you present your
own life and the way you ask them about
their life it's profoundly different if
you were relating as the whole person
and the whole life to that other person
the whole person in the whole life
and not as you know okay this is this
separate circle this is the separate
thing in my life where you know you're
trying to kind of sync up with them and
play a game where you are only going to
know them as a sex object and they are
only going to know you
uh as a sex object now
okay again i was kind of expecting more
people to respond to this dionys i don't
know i don't know how you feel about
those guys you can really you can tell
me how you feel
um
okay one reason why people do this one
reason why they try to have a separate
compartment a separate category right is
the fear of vulnerability that came up
you know before in the chat right
one reason why people try to have this
separate
category and try to you know again
extricate it from their
intellectual emotional family life
career life and everything else right
like and then people will say explicitly
look i don't want you to be involved
with my i don't want you to know my
co-workers or colleagues or i don't even
want you to know about what i'm doing
with my like some people will will say
that their relationship said no no they
want to just keep this this is a
separate you know compartment life
one of the reasons people do this is the
fear of rejection
right like okay if this person really
knows who i am if they know about my
career or my education my intellectual
my family or something they're gonna
they're gonna reject me so i have to
anonymize myself i have to sort of play
this game sort of sort of be this other
person right and of course
you know an alternative to both of those
attitudes is to realize right right
right but the vulnerability
that's exactly what you have to get over
and that's exactly what this flirtation
interaction this relationship like it
may be a failed relationship but this
attempted a relationship
for better or worse
the one way you could absolutely
certainly benefit from this relationship
is precisely by dealing with and
overcoming your vulnerability precisely
by sharing your real life and who you
really are with the other person and by
inviting them to share their own life
and who they really are that's a benefit
you're definitely going to get even if
nothing else works out in a relationship
right
and in terms of fear of rejection
you have to learn to embrace
being rejected for the right reasons
right like okay well you know i don't
gamble
you know if this person is a gambler if
they're people who go gambling every
weekend
that's their regular thing as they
cancel on the weekends okay well like if
i reject them
for gambling and i feel that's for the
best i got to know this person and then
you know there's this thing and then i
reject them you know
i have to be able to accept reciprocally
that there's something about me
which from their perspective it's a good
and wholesome reason for them to reject
me like you have to learn to regard the
rejection possibly now of course
by the way guys if you've lived with
gossip people used to gospel
it's amazing how people used to gospel
but
still
start with the damn there were there
were bored people who really talk about
you on your back and it's kind of
mind-blowing
but you know um
uh
it is tragic if someone rejects you
because someone else made up a lie about
you i mean someone else could say that
you're a gambling addict and actually
you don't gamble at all someone else
made a story you know
of course there are situations where
rejection is really tragic it is really
sad
and you know
i mean that that's also part of the
human condition but within the the the
context we're talking about here if you
get rejected or you reject someone else
because you're sharing who you really
are you know in all these different ways
you know you you have to accept that as
positive and maybe maybe you can still
just be friends with this person maybe
you are still colleagues or something
else you know but again so these are
these are benefits you can get
definitely whereas the other benefits of
a relationship are um probabilistic and
many of them really are are quite
improbable
okay guys so for me that's a wrap
i'm looking at the comment section i
feel that i have completely um exhausted
my audience
was there anything you want to jump in
on i mean
we were talking about a lot before uh
before i got in the microphone you know
things related to this
no i
okay
all right guys you know um
[Music]
we're all mammals we're all products of
millions of years of evolution but the
reason why i talk so rarely and so
little about evolutionary psychology is
that i do not think you know evolution
defines who we are i don't think it
provides us with a limit
and i don't think it provides us with a
sense of purpose or direction
you know
what is the purpose of your relationship
with another person you know i remember
i gave the example some time ago on the
channel you can have such a tight close
relationship between two people who run
a convenience store together you know
you're a married couple and you run a
convenience store there was a time when
i was imagining my relationship with
melissa being that we'd run a bakery
together you know where every day you do
this work
and it brings you together and you
cooperate of course you know a newborn
infant this is another type of very
intense all-consuming work and
responsibility where you have to you
have to work together you know but you
know
what the meaning of your relationship
is or your relationships plural are
why you're pursuing uh this relationship
and you know what what it is what it is
you're trying to get out of it and then
the unexpected things you'll get out of
it you weren't trying to get you know
i'm sorry but you know just
give an example you know exactly the
things that you might reject someone for
could end up making the relationship
more enriching like someone is a bumpkin
who grew up uh in the woods in a small
town living living in the remote
countryside but by bringing them into
your life you gain that perspective and
you learn how they see things that you
never saw it that way like that's not
why you like them that's not what you
liked about them but that that becomes
you know like um
this whole discussion has been very
heteronormative and there have been
references to getting married
getting married and having having kids
you know of course you know
if for you
the point of the relationship is to do
cancer research together so if for you
the point of the relationship is to you
know be a creative artist you could be a
pair of filmmakers together work
together on films that was how that was
how the first star wars got made you
know you got you guys may or may not
know this i think that only the very
first star wars film was any good and
you know then he divorced his wife
he never made a good film after he
divorced this one
i i seriously think that george lucas's
wife was the talent by the first the
first star wars movie you know but you
know you could be filmmakers together
and not have children you know there are
all kinds of other reasons you know
to to be in a relationship you know but
you know my reason for making this video
and the reason why i feel this is
positive you know this is a really
positive encouraging motivating video
and not a contemptuous one is that i
think as shallow as the title is video
might seem about about getting laid
right getting laid
can be and should be
part of leading a meaningful life
getting out and saying what do i have to
share with someone else and what do they
have to share with me and what can we be
together and who can we become
you know sorry who can i become and who
can she become right living our lives
together asking ourselves these
questions holding each other to a higher
standard you know the way in which you
provoke and motivate each other to live
more and learn more and so on you know
getting laid
destroys many people's lives innumerable
people their lives are destroyed by
these you know inborn
instincts we have right but what i'm
doing in this video and on my youtube
channel it generally is emphasizing the
extent of wish this could be a
tremendously positive you know part of
your life and of someone else's life and
where even if your relationships fail
even if they fail again and again and
again you're able to look back on that
relationship
you're able to look back on each and
every relationship you've had in your
life and you're able to say this is how
i became a better person and this is how
she became a better person also by going
through that chapter for life with me